## 12.05: Duck Typing and EAFP Principle 🦆

_Does the bird quack like a duck, swim like a duck, and fly like a duck? Then for all practical purposes - it is a duck._ This is the essence of **Duck Typing**, a quirky term that carries deep insights into how Python treats objects and their types.

In traditional statically typed languages, the type of an object is checked at compile time. But, Python is dynamically typed, meaning it only resolves the type of objects at runtime. Let's consider the following code:

```Python
def calculate_length(item):
    return len(item)
```
In this simple function, Python doesn't care about the object type of `item`. As long as `item` supports the length operation (`len()`), the function will work. This behavior is Duck Typing in action. This code will work equally well for strings, lists, and other objects that support the `len()` operation.

But what happens when `item` is an integer or some other datatype that doesn't support `len()`? This is where the **EAFP** principle comes into play.

**EAFP** stands for "**Easier to Ask for Forgiveness than Permission**". It's a coding principle followed in Python where operations are performed assuming they will work but are prepared to handle exceptions if they occur.

Let's slightly modify the function to demonstrate this principle:

```Python
def calculate_length(item):
    try:
        length = len(item)
    except TypeError:
        length = "Type doesn't support len()"
    return length
```
In this version, the function calculates the length of `item` and asks for forgiveness (_handles the exception_) if a TypeError occurs. This is an example of EAFP in action.

Remember, Python is all about making the code more readable and cleaner. While other languages prefer to use the "Look Before You Leap" (LBYL) approach, Python encourages EAFP. So the next time you write code, remember: _it's easier to ask for forgiveness than permission_.  

These principles can seem counter-intuitive at first, but they're a huge part of why Python is so loved for its readability and simplicity. The next time you code, be it a simple script or a complex application, keep these Pythonic idioms in mind. 

🦆 ➡️👀 ➡️🙏  - that's the way, the Python's way. Happy coding!