# 05.01 What are Dictionaries? 📘

📖 **The Basics**

Dictionaries in Python are a type of data structure that allows you to store key-value pairs. Dictionaries are mutable, which means we can add, remove, or modify elements after dictionary creation. Think of dictionaries as being like a real-life dictionary: the key is the word (unique), and the value is the meaning.

```
student = {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "grade": "A",
    "age": 20
}
```
In this example, "name", "grade", and "age" are the keys, while "John Doe", "A", and 20 are their respective values.

🔄 **Dictionaries vs Lists**

Unlike lists, dictionaries don't retain an order of elements. If you're thinking why that's useful, here's why: the search operation in a dictionary, thanks to hashing of keys, is faster regardless of the number of elements. In a list, search time grows linearly as the number of elements increases.

```python
#create a dictionary and a list
dict_eg = {"apple": 1, "banana": 2}
list_eg = ["apple", "banana"]

#access element in dictionary and list
dict_eg["apple"] #Time Complexity: O(1)
list_eg.index("apple") #Time Complexity: O(n)
```

With the above examples, it's apparent that dictionaries provide a step-up when dealing with massive datasets. 

😄 **Key Features of Dictionaries**

- Keys are unique: Each key in the dictionary must be unique. If we define a key more than once, the last value will be stored, and previous values will be overwritten.
- Keys are immutable: We can use strings, numbers, or tuples as dictionary keys but something like ['key'] is not allowed.
- Dictionaries are dynamic: We can add, modify, and delete keys and values in dictionaries.

Let's dive into a basic example to understand better:

```python
product = dict()

# adding elements
product['id'] = 123
product['name'] = 'Apple'
product['price'] = 599.99

print(product)
# Output: {'id': 123, 'name': 'Apple', 'price': 599.99}

# modifying elements
product['price'] = 499.99

print(product)
# Output: {'id': 123, 'name': 'Apple', 'price': 499.99}

# deleting elements
del product['price']

print(product)
# Output: {'id': 123, 'name': 'Apple'}
```

In the journey of Python, dictionaries can change the way we traverse through our analysis, giving us a faster and efficient method to access and manipulate data. Keep practicing, keep understanding and keep decoding! 🚀