## 05.04 Dictionary Methods 🛠️

To understand how to become a master craftsman in the world of Python, you need to be familiar with the tools at your disposal. Dictionary methods are akin to the many attachments on a Swiss Army knife, each with its specific function and purpose. Let's delve into these methods to grasp how they can be wielded proficiently.

### 🧪 **keys() Method**

The `keys()` method is your magic spell to retrieve all the keys entrusting the secrets within your dictionary.

```python
car = {"brand": "Ford", "model": "Mustang", "year": 1964}
print(car.keys())
```
This will output: `dict_keys(['brand', 'model', 'year'])`. Here, you get a view of all the keys in your dictionary.

### 🔮 **values() Method**

Complementing `keys()` is `values()` - your ability to view the values hidden within your dictionary.

```python
print(car.values())
```
This will output: `dict_values(['Ford', 'Mustang', 1964])`. This method allows you to get a glimpse of all the values stored in your structure.

### 🏹 **items() Method**

Why should keys and values have all the fun separately? They function as a pair, after all. The `items()` method unites them, returning tuples of key-value pairs.

```python
print(car.items())
```
You will get `dict_items([('brand', 'Ford'), ('model', 'Mustang'), ('year', 1964)])`. Now you can easily iterate over both keys and values simultaneously!

### 🧩 **get() Method**

To extract a particular value, you cast the spell `get()`, passing in the key as an argument.

```python
print(car.get("model"))
```
You'll see `'Mustang'`. The true power of get() lies in its ability to return a default value if the key isn’t found. It shields you from errors and keeps your program running smoothly, even in unexpected situations.

### 🦾 **update() Method**

Sometimes your data needs to change as you proceed with your task, and the `update()` method is here to help when you need to modify an existing dictionary.

```python
car.update({"color": "Red"})
print(car)
```
This will output: `{'brand': 'Ford', 'model': 'Mustang', 'year': 1964, 'color': 'Red'}`. With update(), you can seamlessly add or alter key-value pairs in your dictionary.

Remember, profound knowledge of these methods empowers not just your code but your journey as a programmer - giving you the ability to navigate the realms of complexity with ease and aplomb. Now that you have equipped yourself with the methods, prepare to dive into action as we explore real-world applications of dictionaries in the upcoming section.