### 08.05 Method Resolution Order

In Python, when a class inherits from multiple classes, you might wonder which class’s method gets executed when a method is called by a child object. This calls for understanding the “Method Resolution Order" or MRO. MRO is all about how Python resolves method calls in case of multiple inheritance.

#### What is Multiple Inheritance?

Python empowers a class to inherit attributes and methods from more than one parent class. This is called multiple inheritance. 

```python
class Father:
  def gardening(self):
    print('I love gardening')

class Mother:
  def cooking(self):
    print('I love cooking')

class Child(Father, Mother):
  pass

c = Child()
c.gardening() # Outputs: I love gardening
c.cooking() # Outputs: I love cooking
```

In this example, Child inherits from both Father and Mother classes. It's an instance of multiple inheritance.

#### What is Method Resolution Order (MRO)?

Now, here's where things get interesting. What if both parent classes have a method of the same name? Which one does Python execute when called by the child class?

```python
class Father:
  def skills(self):
    print('Gardening, programming')

class Mother:
  def skills(self):
    print('Cooking, Art')

class Child(Father, Mother):
  pass

c = Child()
c.skills() # Outputs: Gardening, programming
```

This is where the Method Resolution Order (MRO) comes into play!  In the MRO, the class hierarchy is linearized according to an algorithm called C3 Linearization, or just C3. 

When a method is invoked, Python starts searching in the current class. If it's not found, it searches in the parent classes, following the MRO from left to right. Here, since 'Father' is to the left of 'Mother', `Father.skills` is executed.

#### The super() function and MRO

The `super()` function in Python makes class inheritance more manageable and extendable. It returns a temporary object of the superclass which then allows you to call its methods.

```python
class Father:
  def skills(self):
    print('Father: Gardening, programming')

class Mother:
  def skills(self):
    print('Mother: Cooking, Art')

class Child(Father, Mother):
  def skills(self):
    super().skills()

c = Child()
c.skills() # Outputs: Father: Gardening, programming
```

In the example above, `super().skills()` inside the `Child` class calls the `skills` method of the `Father` class.

---

By understanding MRO and how to use it, you are better prepared for class inheritance intricacies in Python. It's a quintessential tool in your Python toolkit to enhance your code's reusability, readability, and less redundancy. Just remember: with great power comes great responsibility! 

Go ahead – harness the power of MRO and build something remarkable! 

Happy Coding! 💻