# 01.04: Python 2 vs Python 3 🔄

In the early stages of learning Python, a common point of confusion for beginners is the conflict between Python 2 and Python 3. This chapter is designed to provide clarity and help you make an informed decision on which one you should pick.

## A Tale of Two Pythons 🐍🐍

Python was born in the late 1980s. After years of development, it evolved into Python 2 in 2000. Python 2 was widely adopted by the developer community as it introduced features like garbage collection and Unicode support.

However, as Python grew, so did the need for improvement. This led to the inception of Python 3 in 2008, designed to rectify fundamental design flaws of Python 2. The caveat was that Python 3 was not backward compatible. 

## Why The Duel? ⚔️

The non-backward compatibility of Python 3 created a divide in the Python community. Many legacy applications and libraries were written in Python 2 and required significant effort to migrate to Python 3. This is the primary reason behind the Python 2 Vs Python 3 duel.

## Python 2 End of Life 💀

As of January 1st, 2020, Python 2 is no longer supported by the Python Software Foundation. This means no security updates or bug fixes, making Python 2 a risky choice for projects moving forward.

## Python 3: The Future and Beyond 🚀

Python 3 improves many shortcomings of Python 2. It's easier to read (a key feature of Python), has advanced features such as f Strings, and improved standard libraries. It also has a bright ongoing future with regular updates, patches, and a greater focus on efficiency and performance.

```python
# Python 2 print statement
print "Hello, world"

# Python 3 print function
print("Hello, world")
```
Above exhibits a fundamental difference between the two versions -the print function. In Python 3, 'print' is a function requiring parentheses, making the code more consistent and predictable.

## Which Should You Choose? 🧐

If you're starting today, go with Python 3. It's the present and future of Python with regular updates, community support, and cleaner syntax. The obsolete Python 2 should only be considered if you're working on a legacy system that can't be upgraded or ported to Python 3.

**Embrace Python 3 and let's breathe the power of Python into your journey.**

Remember, the key isn't to dwell too long on this decision. The important thing is to start learning, experimenting, and coding. Immerse yourself in pythonic thinking, and soon enough, you'll be coding snakes like a pro! 💻🌟